>> Jon Kuperman: Another thing
that's really important here is that
sometimes you'll want
screen reader only content.
And this is like a question that I
get asked a lot in workshops is like,
can you detect screen readers?
Is there any kind of way of doing that?
And truthfully,
there's not a way of doing that.
There's no way of detecting
assistive technology.
And I think the standards bodies have been
pretty clear that they don't wanna go down
that road, that you shouldn't be
offering different experiences.
For a while I think there was a pitch to
have a minimal website for accessibility
use cases and then the whole robust
website for non accessibility use cases.
And I think that's like a really
bad direction to head down.
The tools are there to make the full
robust website extremely accessible.
And that's the direction
we should be going in.
So I agree with the standards on there.
However, there are some really cool things
you can do by communicating directly with
screen readers.
And one way to do that is to make elements
that you know the screen reader will read,
but make them visually hidden, right?
And so you say this is here, but
it won't visually appear, but
anyone using a screen reader to
read the content will get to it.
So this kind of like CSS resets
has had a lot of back and
forth over the years of the best way
to make a visually hidden class.
I think a lot of people have settled
on this little bit of CSS here.
But I wanted to tell a cool story
from when I was back at Twitter, and
we'll get into this a little bit later.
But we built this really robust keyboard
shortcut library within twitter.com, and
a lot of social networks have this
where you can go to Timeline, GT, or
go to Messages, GM, things like that.
And we wanted a way of advertising that
particularly to screen reader users.
Say, hey,
we have got this really cool tool set.
And so we came up with this idea
where after the website built,
we prepended a header that said we
have really cool keyboard shortcuts,
hit shift question mark to see them and
then we mark that header visually hidden.
So visually it doesn't show up in
the markup, but it is always there.
And so when you load the site for
the first time with a screen reader,
the first thing that it will read and
we keep a little local storage detective,
you've heard it before.
Was this kind of announcement for
screen readers that, hey,
we've got this really cool shortcut
library, check it out this way.
So you can kind of do some cool
tricks with visually hiding things.
But again, the philosophical point is
we should not be moving in a direction
of making a more limited.
If anything, we should make
the accessible experience more robust.
And so yeah, this is a kind of cool way
that you can sort of interact with screen
reader users without displaying
something like that.
There's caveats though, because if
you were to print out the document,
it would still print out all that markup.
So be kind of aware that you're
not hiding it, hiding it,
you're just visually hiding it
from the rendered process, yeah?
>> Speaker 2: So for an image that is not
really useful for the screen readers,
you can actually have
the Arial hidden True, right?
>> Jon Kuperman: Yeah,
yeah, you could hide it.
I think also like if you just
put the alt text blank on it,
it'll just skip the image.
The screen readers will just skip it.
So yeah, lots of different
ways that you can hide it.
>> Speaker 3: Is a visually hidden
span preferable over an aria label for
anchor tags that should
only contain visible image?
>> Jon Kuperman: So if you have an anchor
tag, okay, yes, you've got links and
instead of text,
the links have visible images in them.
And you're wondering what the best way
to handle that for accessibility is.
I think the actual best way to do it would
just be to have an empty alt string on
the image itself because if you, you don't
wanna visually hid in it because you
need it visually to be there for sighted
users to be able to see the anchor.
An empty alt would be great,
an aria label would also be great.
But I think probably the best solution
would be the anchor and then an empty
alt and then if you needed either
a label or whatever you'd like for it.
So yeah, I guess I think the best solution
probably would be to combine them.
So empty alt on the image,
ARIA label on the anchor and
therefore when users tab over to it,
it'll just read the label and
it won't read the image but
not visually hidden.
>> Speaker 3: Is there a specific
reason it is a one by one pixel and
not just zero?
>> Jon Kuperman: Yeah,
that's a really good question.
So that's referring to
this visually hidden.
This is like the CSS magicians
that work on this stuff.
So I think the thing is, and you see this
quite a bit with like CSS hacks that if
something is width 0 and height 0, there's
like a more than decent chance that tools
like assistive tools will, will skip
it because it doesn't exist to them.
So you see this quite often where you
make something one by one and then you
absolutely position it way off the screen
so it doesn't render, and yet its virtue
of having width and height means that it
won't be skipped by assistive technology.
So I think there's a risk, I think
that probably half the time visually
hidden being zero and
zero would work just great.
But then maybe half the time screen
readers would neglect to read the item
because they would think
that it is not rendered.